## Automated Cognate Detection with Cognate Transformer
V.S.D.S.Mahesh Akavarapu, Arnab Bhattacharya


The primary model can be run on +12.5% train data proportion by the command:

> `python cogtran_triattn.py`

The model is stored in `models/` and the results are generated in `results/`. For running on other train proportions or on ablated architecture check with the following command:

> `python cogtran_triattn.py --help`

For running on word-pair input only model i.e. on **CogTranPair** similarly run `cogtran_pair.py`.

## Reproducing results for baseline models

* For running Siamese CNN run `siamese_cnn.py` similar to above

* For running LexStat-Infomap and SCA follow the procedures in `lexstat.py` and `sca.py` respectively from the repository of Rama et. al (2018) [link](https://github.com/PhyloStar/AutoCogPhylo)

* Running SVM is a bit involved. One needs to follow the procedure in `evolaemp-svmcc-98d9fd0/README.md` to prepare vectors for every single file in `evolaemp-svmcc-98d9fd0/data/datasets`. To generate the inferences one needs to edit manually `evolaemp-svmcc-98d9fd0/code/infer/base.py` appropriately setting `TRAINING_SETS` and `TEST_SETS` based on split/proportion. We have provided generated inferences already from which results can be generated by running `Eval_SVM.py` with appropriate `fname`.

### Citation

V.S.D.S.Mahesh Akavarapu and Arnab Bhattacharya. 2024. Automated Cognate Detection as a Supervised Link Prediction Task with Cognate Transformer. In *Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)*, pages 965–975, St. Julian’s, Malta. Association for Computational Linguistics.[link](https://aclanthology.org/2024.eacl-long.58/)
